Feature/maskings (#7347)
arangodb/arangodb: Documentation/Books/Manual/Programs/Arangodump/Maskings.md

Arangodump Data Maskings
========================

*--maskings path-of-config*

It is possible to mask certain fields during dump. A JSON config file is
used to define with fields should be masked and how.

The general structure of the config file is

    {
      "collection-name": {
        "type": MASKING_TYPE
        "maskings" : [
          MASKING1,
          MASKING2,
          ...
        ]
      },
      ...
    }

## MASKING_TYPE

> This is a string describing how to mask this collection. Possible values are

Author: done

> - "ignore": the collection is ignored complete and not even the sturcture data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "ignore": the collection is ignored completely and not even the structure data
```

Author: Done

  is dumped.

- "structure": only the collection structure is dumped, but no data at all

- "full": the collection structure and all data is dumped. However, the data

>   is subject to maskings defined in the attribute maskinks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  is subject to maskings defined in the attribute maskings.
```

Author: Done

>   is subject to maskings defined in the attribute maskinks.

Author: @Simran-B would "masked" be better?

>   is subject to maskings defined in the attribute maskinks.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, how about `exclude`, `structure` and `masked`? Exclude as in "exclude this collection", and to reduce the risk of misunderstanding as in "ignore masking" (rule disabled).

>   is subject to maskings defined in the attribute maskinks.

Author: good point, will change

For example:

    {
      "private": {
        "type": "ignore"
      },

      "log": {
        "type": "structure"
      },

      "person": {
        "type": "full",
        "maskings": [
          {

>             "path": "name",

Reviewer 2: What about nested attributes? Will `my.nested.attribute` work here?

In View definitions for ArangoSearch, we use a nested configuration format. The benefit is that it's possible to have an attribute `{ "my.attribute": ... }` but also `{ "my": { "attribute": ... } }` and clearly define which one to index.

For bind parameters, we support arrays like `["my", "attribute"]`. However, in index definitions (and simple queries e.g. `byExample()`) we don't support attributes with dots in their names.

Old report about this for byExample():
https://trello.com/c/6WBsCnht/1142-dot-still-magic-character-in-attribute-keys-in-byexample

Author: @Simran-B isn't there a convention to escape attribute names in AQL?

Reviewer 2: You can escape e.g. language keywords in AQL yes, but there it's not a problem anyway, because you can do `doc.@bindparam` with `{ "bindparam": ["my", "attribute"] }`. There is no such mechanism for fields to index, in the JS API / Simple Queries like byExample() and also the web interface.
I created a separate issue for this: https://github.com/arangodb/planning/issues/3240

Author: ok, for the dump definition I would prefer the quoting

Reviewer 2: Not sure if I follow. The following:

```json
{ "path": "`my.attribute`" }
```

would only shift the problem to backticks. It's unlikely that someone will put backticks in the name of an attribute key, but it's allowed. For now, it would be fine to interpret the dots path separator I guess, but we should keep this in mind for 4.0 and fix it there. An array would work:

```json
{ "path": ["my", "attribute"] } 
```

If multiple paths are allowed, then we should require an outer array (otherwise it will be ambiguous again):

```json
{ "paths": [ ["my", "attribute"] ] } 
```

            "type": "xify_front",

>             "length": 2

Reviewer 2: What do `type` and `length` do to fields?

Author: will add explanation

          },
          {
            "path": "security_id",
            "type": "xify_front",
            "length": 2
          }
        ]
      }
    }

In the example the collection "private" is completely ignored. Only the

> structure of the collection "log" is dump, but not the data itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
structure of the collection "log" is dumped, but not the data itself.
```

> The collection "person" is dumped completed but masking the "name" field when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The collection "person" is dumped completely but masking the "name" field when
```

Author: done

> The collection "person" is dumped completed but masking the "name" field when

Reviewer 2: when --> if

Author: done

> it occurs on the to-level. It masks the field "security_id" anywhere in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it occurs on the top-level. It masks the field "security_id" anywhere in the
```

Author: Done

    }

In the example the collection "private" is completely ignored. Only the
structure of the collection "log" is dumped, but not the data itself.
The collection "person" is dumped completely but masking the "name" field if
it occurs on the top-level. It masks the field "security_id" anywhere in the
document. See below for a complete description of the parameters of
"xify_front".

Path
----

> If the path starts with a `.` then it is considered to be a wildcard match.

Reviewer 2: ... then it will be **matched recursively**. -> maybe better than "wildcard" because that could be understood as `*name` to match every attribute that ends with "name".

> If the path starts with a `.` then it is considered to be a wildcard match.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the path starts with a `.` then it will be matched recursively.
```
Maybe better than "wildcard" because that could be understood as `*name` to match every attribute that ends with "name".

For example, `.name` will match the attribute name `name` everywhere in the
document. `name` will only match at top level. `person.name` will match
the attribute `name` in the top-level object `person`.

> If you have a attribute name that contains a dot, you need to quote the

Reviewer 2: **an** attribute

> If you have a attribute name that contains a dot, you need to quote the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have an attribute name that contains a dot, you need to quote the
```

name with either a tick or a backtick. For example

    "path": "´name.with.dots´"

or

    "path": "`name.with.dots`"

xify_front
----------

> This masking replaces characters with `x` and ` `. Alphanumeric characters,

Reviewer 2: Leading/trailing whitespace in inline code blocks is stripped on Github, but not in Gitbook in my test, so this should be fine.
